# On the Value of Wikipedia as a Gateway to the Web

_Tiziano Piccardi, Miriam Redi, Giovanni Colavizza, Robert West_

By linking to external websites, Wikipedia acts as a gateway to the Web. To date, however, little is known about the amount of traffic generated by Wikipedia's external links. We fill this gap in a detailed analysis of usage logs gathered from Wikipedia users' client devices.

Our analysis proceeds in three steps:
First, we quantify the level of engagement with external links, finding that, in one month, English Wikipedia generates 43M clicks to external websites, which are roughly evenly distributed over links in infoboxes, cited references, and article bodies. Official links listed in infoboxes have by far the highest click-through rate (CTR), 2.47\% on average. In particular, official links associated with articles about businesses, educational institutions, and websites have the highest CTR, whereas official links associated with articles about geographical content, television, and music have the lowest CTR.
Second, we investigate patterns of engagement with external links, finding that Wikipedia frequently serves as a stepping stone between search engines and third-party websites, effectively fulfilling information needs that search engines do not meet.
Third, we quantify the hypothetical economic value of the clicks received by external websites from English Wikipedia, by estimating that the respective website owners would need to pay a total of \$8--15 million per month to obtain the same volume of traffic via sponsored search.

Overall, these findings shed light on Wikipedia's role not only as an important source of information, but also as a high-traffic gateway to the broader Web ecosystem.

Full paper: [https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.07385](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.07385)


### Files in this repository

- _TrainOfficialLinkClassifier.ipynb_: Performance of the binary classifier to predict the class of the link in the infobox (Official/Not official).
- _GoogleAdsCostForecastPlot.ipynb_: Estimation of the CPC with Google Ads (Figure 10)
- _FeaturesImportanceClickAndTime.ipynb_: Regressions and plots (Figure 5a, 7a, 8) describing the coeffients for High-Low CTR and Fast-Slow click.
- _CTRateCoeffPlotTopK.ipynb_: Regressions with varying top-bottom K. It contains Figure 6 extended to all topics.
- _LinguisticAnalysis3000Click.ipynb_: Words-based regression to predicit the CTR (Figure 5b)
